Hey, everyone.
Excited to record another episode.
Thanks, everybody, for jumping in.
You ready?
Let's do it.
All right.
Hello, and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 479, recorded May 11, 2026.
And I'm Brian Aachen.
And I'm Michael Kennedy.
And this episode is sponsored by all of our stuff,
like the pytest book and pytest courses and Talk Python training and so much else.
And also Patreon supporters. Thank you, Patreon supporters.
If you'd like to get a topic, if you've got a topic that you think we ought to talk about
or just are interested in, don't worry about whether or not we've heard it or not.
Just send it on over anyway.
You can reach us on Mastodon and Bluesky.
And there's a contact form right on the show notes,
but right there on pythonbytes.fm as well.
So you can check that out.
Thanks to everybody that watches us live on YouTube.
If you'd like to be a part of the audience
and submit comments and stuff,
you can head on over to pythonbytes.fm/live
and be part of that.
And you don't need to take notes
because you can just get our newsletter.
So go to the pythonbytes.fm also and subscribe to the newsletter,
and we'll send you...
We don't send much other than just the links and all the information.
Well, there's a lot of content in the weekly email that we send out.
It's not just the links to everything we talked about,
but it's also some background information.
And you'll especially want this time because we've got some cool stuff.
Speaking of cool stuff, Michael, want to kick us off?
Yeah, let's kick it.
Let's kick it off.
Let's talk about HTTPX YZ.
So recall, this is Mikhail had created a fork,
and we covered why I forked HTTPX,
and it was part of the larger churn around in code, I believe,
and so on and all of that.
And so this is the one-month check-in, and it's pretty interesting.
I think it's got some ideas worth paying attention to here.
So basically, a couple things worth talking about is they got the first version out.
It contains some fixes to get ZSTD working, get the test running, housekeeping, and so on.
But then more importantly, end of March, some fixes came out.
compatibility shim that allows you to use HTTPX. This is okay, this is the thing that really made
me want to cover this because they released a compatibility shim that allows you to use HTTPXYZ,
even when third party packages use HTTPX themselves. So this is my
dilemma. I look at my project, and I see that I'm using HTTPX. I'm like,
huh, it'd be really cool to switch to HTTPXYZ.
Seems like the right thing to do.
And then I go look at my pip compiled output,
and it says HTTPX because these seven packages are using HTTPX.
I'm like, huh, well, that's kind of useless.
Like, why would I use one when I have to effectively use these others all the time
when I interact with those libraries, right?
I'm still in the same boat, and I don't see a life raft or any way to get out of that boat.
So here's that thing, and it's pretty interesting.
If all you've got to do is if you import at the startup of your app,
HTTPXYZ, it also tells it the world that it is HTTPX.
Okay.
So for example, you can assert that HTTPX is in system modules of HTTPXYZ,
right, that kind of thing.
So if you import HTTPX somewhere along the way,
some other app does, or other part of your app does,
it will still return basically a compatible layer,
even at a type instance.
So if you ask, is this thing that I got from HTTPXYZ.response of some type,
is that actually an HTTPX.response?
Yes.
So really interesting compatibility.
And honestly, I don't know how it does that.
That's pretty interesting.
Yeah.
How do you say you are, I derive from this class in another library
without having the other library present?
You know what I mean?
Well, as long as the endpoints are there, you're going to fulfill it.
But it is a...
Yeah, but it's not duck typing.
This is strong typing.
It's asking is instance, right?
That's what I think is interesting.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
Interesting.
I don't know.
I feel like I'm going to go on a typing rant this episode.
So prepare yourself, people.
Prepare yourself.
So this is not uncommon.
Like Pillow has done this.
OpenCV has done this.
YAML, PyYAML have done this.
And so on.
Well, but done this being they've got a different name that you use.
Yes.
You import from the library.
But the hijacking some other project's name, that's, I don't know what I feel about that.
So I don't know a way around it other than this.
No, in this case, I think it's a good thing.
It seems like this could be abused.
Yes, agreed.
Agreed.
Okay.
Well, welcome to Python imports, I guess.
Yeah.
So I think this is actually pretty interesting.
And also, this is kind of the flow of this project.
It's like, oh, we noticed that HTTP core
is actually the root of many of the problems,
which is also a similar project.
So we have to create XDP core XYZ and fix a whole bunch of issues,
some serious and so on.
So there you go.
Got some nice quotes here.
And then finally, it's on Codeberg, which I think is not the right choice.
I understand the desire, but in practice, I don't think it's the right.
I think it should be on GitHub.
Even with all the GitHub issues.
Because, you know, you look at it, it's got 39 stars.
HGPX has 15,000.
Right.
So, on GitHub.
I don't know.
I think that that's, you know.
Mikhail says, look, I'd love to make GitHub a little bit less dominant.
Yes, I agree.
but I don't necessarily know that I would try to fight two battles in one.
You're already trying to make HTTPX not less dominant.
I see it.
I have sympathy.
You can get rid of a lot of junk if you're not on GitHub.
Yeah.
I know.
It's like, what are you optimizing for?
Are you optimizing for the developers, the project's benefit,
or are you optimizing for exposure?
I don't think so.
I think it's whether or not you want contributors
because the exposure is through PyPI,
not really GitHub.
And maybe podcasts, people talk about it.
Yeah.
I think it's a cool project.
I'm going to look into maybe use it more
now that that shim thing exists.
Yeah, cool.
And while I'm doing that, Brian,
maybe you want to talk to us about concurrency?
I'll get back to you on what I've learned.
I do.
Yeah.
While I'm doing that, yeah.
So concurrency.
So I ran across this article.
It's on GeekUni.
I don't know what that is, but it looks like there's some interesting stuff way back to 2013.
But anyway, Lean Concurrency, a deep dive into multithreading with Python.
And this is the author, Nico's.
And I actually really like this article.
So I do, I'm familiar with multi-threading in multiple languages, and I don't use it a lot in Python.
And I do have a lot of projects or at least a couple of projects coming up that I want to use some concurrency.
And so a refresher is a good idea.
And like the world has changed a little bit recently in the, I mean, the big recently in Python, because we've got Gilders Python.
We have free threaded.
and it changes the dynamics a little bit.
So it's a good time to have a refresher on concurrency with Python.
And this is, so we are going to talk about multithreading in this article,
but one of the great things that I like about this is it doesn't assume anything.
So it's talking about like in data science or cryptography or data processing,
some of the places where you might want concurrency,
but there is really lots of places where you want it.
And then filling in some of the terms that you may not be familiar with, like concurrency versus sequential.
We probably should know that.
But things like global interpreter lock, and I guess we already know those things.
But one of the terms is embarrassingly concurrent, and I kind of forgot what that meant.
So it's good there.
And that just means, well, it means that you can separate the work
into things that can work without any interactions.
Those are embarrassingly concurrent.
Anyway.
Yeah, one super, super common example of that is video game graphics.
Each pixel is computed independent of each other pixel.
So if you've got a million pixels,
as much parallelism as you can just compute each pixel at the same time,
They're not going to interfere with each other, right?
Yeah.
It is funny that it's embarrassingly.
It's not really embarrassingly.
It's just ideal.
Anyway.
Exactly.
What a glass half empty perspective that is.
So I just encourage people to look through this.
There's some great walkthroughs about different things.
And also one of the, it talks about free threaded concurrency as well.
if you want to catch up with the GIL and getting rid of the GIL and stuff.
And it even talks about how to install the free-threaded Python, which is nice.
Which, of course, you're going to just use uv.
But even with uv, you have to do the 3.14T.
You have to add the T to the end to get it to work.
One of the cool things, I think, is that it's not a magic bullet.
You can't just use free-threaded Python with threads and have it be magically fast.
And that's one of the cool, like Fibonacci is a hard one because you're sort of, you could really do it faster.
You depend on previous ones.
So it's slightly interesting with a Fibonacci, but how many times do you really calculate Fibonacci?
So the better examples below that.
And it's a very simple example of just having a bunch of threads update a counter.
And you won't do this, but it's a cool example because it's an obvious one where you've got shared data.
There are a bunch of threads all accessing the counter.
So it's a very simple toy example, but you could see how that relates to a lot of other work.
The cool thing, one of the interesting things about this is it talks about some of the problems with concurrency, how to get around it, problems with concurrency and shared data.
And one of the first things I reached for because I came from C and C++ is locks when I want to have shared data.
And within this example, locks turns out to be the wrong solution because it actually slows everything down.
And I'm familiar with that with other languages as well.
But the cool thing that I've never really understood before
that I'm grateful for this article to talk about
is the Threadpool executor or executor?
Threadpool? I don't know.
Threadpool executor.
Of how to launch a bunch of threads,
have them come up with their own answer
without talking to each other at all, no shared data,
and then collect the return values.
And that's the really good way.
So with concurrency, not surprising.
The best way to do it is to re-architect your algorithms
so that they can take advantage of it.
And what I'm excited about is that now we don't have to do,
like, we don't have to rely on async.io.
You can still.
But for a lot of parallel processing,
we can just use threads now, finally, in Python.
Threads are okay.
So anyway, good article, good introduction.
Yeah, cool.
And it's very exciting.
I think it's going to give us a chance
to talk about all sorts of fun things.
We in Python land have not obsessed
about all these design patterns, race conditions,
making sure you lock all of your activity.
Yeah.
But we're going to have to start.
We're going to have to start.
And I'm not sure that we necessarily should not have.
The guild does not protect you against corrupt multi-step race conditions.
Well, we've kind of benefited that threads don't really run at the same time up until now.
Yeah, yeah, I know.
But that's totally fine for one operation.
But let's suppose I like the classic bank example.
I debit somebody out of this account.
I do 10 lines of work, and then I credit the other account.
Nothing says that the GIL will not stop halfway through.
It's just, it's not very likely.
So those problems are there in the code,
which I think is going to be a double whammy.
But it also lets us start to think about the fun things
like double-checked locking, which is such a cool idea.
I think it's going to be really fun.
I think it's really fun.
Double-checked locking?
Yeah, so check this out.
I'll put this in the show notes.
It's just off of, or look it up on Wikipedia.
So what you can do is you can say, if you have a single threaded thing, you can check, like, if this object is null, let's say it's a singleton.
If this object is null, create a new one.
So you only create it once and then return it.
But it's like a lazy create.
But the default multi-threaded version would be every time you call this function, take a lock, check if it's null, if it is, create it, return it.
But you can do things like check outside the lock if it's null.
and then take a lock and then check again if it's null
because maybe two things hit, one of them locked,
one of them created it.
You still want the same one.
But you can skip the locking ever
except for during the once, one and only creation.
There's really fun patterns like that.
So I'm kind of actually looking forward to it.
I'm not looking forward to the race conditions.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Speaking of locks, let's lock files instead of memory and execution.
So it turns out that pip 26.1 is out.
And it comes with features that I've been very excited about.
Most importantly, dependency cooldowns.
So remember, I don't remember when I wrote about this.
It was December last year.
I wrote about Python supply chains made easy,
and I wrote a follow-up one for doing that production.
One of the really most important significant bits of this was,
you know, instead of you finding out,
let's let others find out that something's bad.
And the way you do that is you simply just go over
and you just say, uv pip, whatever, install, compile, whatever,
exclude newer one week.
And this was a thing that uv had that pip did not have, right?
So chalk one up one more thing for pip.
Sorry, for uv over pip.
But now pip itself actually has the same concept.
They have different CLI flags, which I don't know.
I feel like they should have just said, well,
what are people using now?
Let's use that same CLI flag, but so it is.
So it has this-- let's go down to the cooldowns.
Here we go.
So you can say-- uploaded prior to,
And you can put some kind of time in there, a duration.
So PND, where N is the number of days, kind of--
OK.
Anyway, so you say P3D is like prior to three days is the value.
And then you can install something.
And that says it will only install the older--
stuff older than three days.
And this is super valuable.
It sounds like, oh, Michael, this is like security through obscurity.
and it's not going to make a difference. Like almost all of these major takeovers
are like three hours later, it was found five hours later, it was found.
Yeah, rarely do these things sit around for a week unless they're extremely rare.
But the major projects take over like the Oh my gosh, I can't remember which
that LLM library that used for like a facade over all the different LLMs.
That one was taken down two days, two hours after it was gotten in there.
You know what I mean? So these, I think these are meaningful differences.
Why the actual difference in CLI, I don't know.
Maybe there's a good reason, but I don't know.
Anyway, I'm really glad to see pip having this.
Also, Python 3.9 is not supported.
It's end of life over six, seven months ago.
So it seems fine that it shouldn't be here anymore.
Yeah, I don't even remember 3.9.
Yeah, I don't know what was 3.9. We don't even know.
So honestly, I don't know why you would have any support for any older version.
You might say, well, Michael, somebody might be on Python 3.9 and they got to install stuff.
Like just pin pip to 25, right?
Like pip 25 is what they were using when they had Python 3.9 anyway.
Just install a different version of pip.
I think that's like a no-brainer and should just be like a default.
New features.
This is interesting.
First of all, I'm very positive about this.
I think this is a great move, and I'm really happy to see it,
even if I have some criticisms like PND, which is just weird,
and there's already existing ones.
So this is also a little like that.
So Brett Cannon.
Go ahead.
No, what are PND files?
I don't know.
No, no, that's how you specify the three days ago.
You say uploaded prior to equals P3D instead of just three days.
Who's going to remember that?
Okay, yeah.
Like the uv one you just put in quotes, one week, seven days.
Well, I mean, it's easier.
The parsing is probably easier or something.
I don't know.
I know, but it's used by millions of people, written by ones.
You could ask AI, help me parse this.
Anyway, yeah, I got it.
So there's this PEP 751, which was created in 2024,
and it was, I believe it was accepted 14 months ago.
I'm not entirely sure.
It's not super obvious, but the resolution is March 2025.
So it's been around for a long time, about a year plus.
And this is the file format to record Python dependencies for installation and reproducibility
by Brett Cannon.
He's been working on this forever.
And the idea is this is basically the pylock.toml.
And if you go over here, it's actually in the Python packaging user guide on how to do it.
This is great.
So why am I talking about this?
Because the deal is pip now supports installing these somewhat
as an experimental feature.
So a year after its acceptance switch standardized pylock.toml,
PIP 26.1 gains experimental support for such files,
for reading and installing from them.
OK, so this is great.
I think it's just pip is the most common way
to install stuff in Python still,
even if it's not the most hyped or most Rust implemented way
to do it, it's still the most common way.
And so having to support it is kind of like table stakes.
So I think this is really cool.
There's a bunch of caveats and limitations and so on and so on.
But the criticism is if this is officially accepted
by the core developers and Python and the steering
council, why did it take a year for pip to support it?
That seems pretty out of sync.
That's a long time from-- yeah, we have this official feature,
and our official installer can't use it.
Yeah.
But I'm glad that it has it, so that's good.
Maybe there's more to it than I know, again, but who knows.
Some stuff about the older--
like newer and older resolvers.
The new resolver now does many of the things
that the older resolvers were being kept around for.
So I believe there's now a plan to remove the older legacy
like if you've got this version less than or equal to
and you've got that other version and so on,
like how do you resolve that, right?
Then a few security fixes,
not necessarily going to go into it too much,
but there you go.
A brand new pip 26.1.
I feel like this is a big release,
which is why I brought it up.
It's got the dependencies, cooldowns,
which I think is critical these days.
And it's got lock file support.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, it's really cool.
And it's definitely moving in the right direction.
Yeah.
Also, shout out,
This is--
yeah, go ahead.
With wacky CLI names, but OK.
Yeah, yeah.
Also, just shout out, this is by Richard C.
So thanks, Richard.
Cool.
I actually am excited about another PEP as well.
So we're going to stick with the PEP thing for a little bit.
This time, Sentinel Values and also a blast from the past
because--
what do I have searched still up?
Anyway, this Sentinel values is PEP 661, and it was created in 2021.
And it's five years later, so it's taken a while.
However, it is resolved and final as of for Python 315.
So we'll get Sentinels finally.
the the PEP 66 661 has a bunch of information but it's also uh it says important this is a historical
document even though it's just finally here but it's been working being worked on for five years
the the actual information then is in in uh the sentinel information now in the documentation so
we can click over and look at.
I already had it up.
Look at Sentinel values.
And they're kind of neat.
So I'm excited about this.
I don't quite understand some of the decisions, but that's okay.
So we often use like none for Sentinel value or NAN if you're doing like floating point stuff.
But Sentinel is a built-in that you don't have to import anything.
You just say Sentinel and then give it a name.
Like in the example, in the docs, it's missing.
So Sentinel parentheses and then the quote missing.
You can name it whatever.
But the object, one of the interesting things is it acts kind of like none.
You use is, like if you want to check a variable or an element,
if it is the Sentinel, you can say is missing.
and then in the types, the type is handled interestingly.
The object is both the value and the type.
So you can say like a default, like some variable is of type int
or the pipe operator or missing.
So you can have that together.
And it isn't missing altogether.
Missing isn't the magical sentinel value.
You can have anything like not available.
or whatever you want to call it.
So about, I guess, you know,
I think that it's very much about time
that we have a sentinel value built into the language.
Interesting.
Okay, so everything so far sounds great.
The part that I don't quite get is that it's not truthy,
or it is truthy, that's it.
So if you're going through a list like an array,
and you want to check to see if it's sentinel,
you have to say is your sentinel.
You know, if you use the is operator to make sure it's there.
You can't, like none, you could just say if.
Like, you know, if the value, if that's true,
that means it's not none because none evaluates to false.
All the sentinels evaluate to true.
So you have to treat it differently.
All right.
I'm already feeling a PEP to enhance the sentinel coming on.
to make it to flip the values but what do you mean you know what I love the idea of a sentinel I love
it because it lets you check you know it's like if you're doing a you know find me the index of
this thing this item in a string and it's negative one which is also an integer but like that's this
that's means it's not there right like it's all those kinds of checks are just odd and I love
having the idea of a sentinel a thing where you say I can check this and it's
the same type but if it's but if it is this that means actually we weren't able
to process it right because yeah something weird came back what I mean is
so the way you create the sentinel value like the it's a singleton or one-off
type of thing like that's why use is right and so you say sentinel and you
give it a string, which I guess is what it prints when you try to string or rep the value, right?
Yeah.
And that's cool. Why not give it a default, even true, I guess, for compatibility at this point,
you would have to do, but why not give it a second variable you could pass, like a falsiness,
like is it true or false, like comma false. And then boom, okay, if this sentinel comes up and I say
if value, no, this is not a value
because it indicates the absence of a value.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Can I continue to rant?
I like that.
It wouldn't break the current implementation,
but you could make it more usable, I think.
Yeah, exactly.
Just default the value to true on that second parameter.
So you don't have to set it.
It doesn't break anything.
But allow you to pass false.
if you if it or anything like where it's truthiness has to be checked,
then it can be what it says it is.
Because you might have a sentinel for two different outcomes, right?
That's plausible, I guess, although it's not usually the way it's used.
Yeah, but like a lot of – I mean, for sentinels to mean,
like I've got a big vector of stuff, I want to know if it's not filled out.
Yeah.
I think the default should be false
Primarily sentinels are used in the case
Where something didn't work out right
Normally you get a value
But sometimes you get a special value
That means you couldn't get a value
That should be false, I agree
Yeah, I guess the one part where I say
Maybe it's
It's going to be more readable
Because it's going to force you to say
Is missing
Or is not there
Or whatever your value is
Sure
I don't know.
I do like that you don't have to do that with none.
You can just say that it's just values false.
I do like the idea.
I think that you should get on that whole PEP thing
for extending that, Michael.
Yeah, before you scroll that screen,
let me work on my second version of the pep.
I somewhat dislike the truthiness, although I get it.
I'll just give a shout-out to Quarky out in the audience.
I guess even the Sentinel is an object,
which kind of makes it hard to be false but like you can implement dunderbool right so then you
could do it empty strings are objects and they evaluate the false yeah yeah exactly like you can
there's a magic method to say false they just return the value of the parameter that goes in
when you created it right i think it's it's like a five minute implementation and 47 hour like
documentation and negotiation afterwards but here's the other one i think this is more subtle
There's an example saying like, how do I express in the type system that something might be
of the value expect or the value that is the sentinel?
And this was much, I think this is a much more significant,
probably not going to use this after all, sort of thing in my mind.
Let me set the stage.
If I have a function that returns none or integer, and I say x plus y,
where x came from that function, my type checker will say,
oh, you cannot plus that with another integer
because none does not allow addition with integer.
So you can say, if is not none, x plus y
will work without the type checker failing.
But if you just say x plus y, types fall apart.
It gets all upset.
I'm pretty sure that's what's going
to happen here with Sentinels.
Your type has to be, I return an int or missing,
or an int or the sentinel.
The sentinel does not have type information
based on an integer.
And so any int operation on it will fail.
And the type checker is going to warn.
So you're going to have to add all of these like,
I know it said it was an int or a sentinel,
but it's not any longer.
Now it's just an int.
And I feel like there's a lot of clumsiness that's
going to go along with trying to work with things that express themselves as int or sentinel.
So could we just add another type, another parameter to the creation?
Like it's a sentinel of int.
It's a sentinel of.
Yeah, but we're not going to get it for 3.15.
Maybe we'll get it later.
No, no.
I'm just saying, wouldn't it be nice if you could have it also be the type so you don't
have to express in the type system that it is something else.
You know, I don't know.
To me, I think that's going to be, I think it's going to be rugged.
I think it's going to be rugged.
So.
Yeah.
I think we're, I think we're getting into like old man yells at cloud territory.
So we may have to move on.
Cut me off, Ryan.
I'm telling you.
See, I told you I was going to be on like a type.
type run this time.
But no, I'm glad you covered it, because this is interesting.
I love the idea of Sentinels.
I haven't used them very much in Python,
but I used them back in my C++ and C# days.
And I really like them.
I think they provide a really interesting goal.
Yeah.
Yep.
Do you have any extras for us?
Yeah, you know what?
I got some stuff to talk about.
Let me swap it over.
I didn't have any extras written down, but then I decided I have extras.
So I haven't talked about this yet.
But if I go over at Talk Python Training, I've done some cool stuff.
So there are so many.
You warned me of this pop out thing, Brian.
I'm now starting to feel it.
So over at Talk Python Training, we now have German subtitles for
every single course for all 280 hours of courses.
So I pull up Vincent Wormerdam's LLM building blocks course.
And now if I click on the CC, I get English, German,
and this one even has Spanish.
How about that?
Nice.
Yeah, so I could turn on German transcripts.
And on the screen, maybe those are too big.
So I could make them a little smaller, put them up at the top
so they're not in the way.
I've done a ton of work on the transcripts over here.
And now guess what?
Vincent's speaking German now.
We'll see a little bit of a data bank.
Right?
Let's go.
So anyway, if you were a German speaker,
check out the courses and turn on the subtitles for German,
if you like.
I'm wondering how, like, when we're
going to have AI tools that can not just do different translations
for subtitles, but can we get dubbing
in the original speaker's voice?
That'd be cool.
Hold that thought.
All right, that's my extra.
We have German subtitles for all the courses
that talk Python, all 280 hours.
And I would just like to point out--
I said this in the blog post, but just
to listen to 280 hours of audio is seven weeks,
almost two months of work.
Not the translating, not the double checking.
Just to listen is seven weeks worth of work, 40 hours, eight hours a day, five days a week sort of thing.
So that is a mega, mega project I've been working on.
You got a lot of courses up.
I know.
It's crazy.
So I'm working through the Spanish ones now.
I've got maybe four courses converted over Spanish, but Spanish is going to be the next language.
So don't feel left out, Spanish-speaking folks.
It's coming.
Cool.
Yeah, that's my extra.
All right.
Well, I'm going to roll back to, we were talking about, what was it?
It's not the place, the non-Github place that we had somebody at.
Kudberg.
Kudberg, yeah.
So on that topic, Armin Roeneker wrote an article about GitHub.
So before GitHub, basically it's talking about this.
Like we're at an inflection point, not sure where we're going to go forward.
But before GitHub, it was a weird place.
We had basically source controls, roll your own or do something wacky.
It was a very different experience.
So I have to agree.
I am, even at the state of GitHub right now, I'm still using it a lot and other things.
But I also understand some of the gripes people have.
There's political stuff with AI and everything.
But aside from that, and whether or not they should have been able to just steal everybody's content or intellectual property, because open source does not mean, please just train your AIs on it.
But anyway, regardless of that, there's another aspect of it that the GitHub is really built around community building and getting as many collaborators as possible.
And it doesn't often work that way.
I mean, we often get a lot of people submitting issues and griping about things, but not a lot of people contributing actual good code contributions.
And it's even worse now with a lot of people just submitting AI slop as stuff.
So I totally get projects moving away.
So there's an interesting discussion about GitHub is slowly dying.
I don't think it's going to die.
I think it'll stick around for a long time.
And I think for many years, it'll be still the dominant one.
But there is some interesting shifts.
At first, there were just a few people moving over, or not a few, a lot of people moving over to Codeberg.
But it was smaller projects, but now there's some bigger ones.
And one of the things that I'm grateful for is he brought up Tenacity.
And I'm like, what's Tenacity?
I don't know what that is.
and it's a total tangent for the topic,
but it's a cross-platform multi-track audio editor
and recorder that I'd never heard of,
and it looks pretty cool.
So I might check that out.
It's an open source thing.
Anyway.
Oh, that's very cool.
I've used Audacity,
and I bet it is a riff on Audacity, right?
Possibly, yeah.
Oh, I'm definitely checking this out.
This is cool.
Yeah, so I definitely want to check that out,
even though I'm happy with my audio situation right now.
But anyway, the interesting thing around this,
it's an interesting topic, and it's not a really long article.
One of the things he talks about really is if we go to Codeberg
or other roll-your-own stuff and have source code all over the place,
we do lose some things because even though you can clone,
you can do things, the conversations are less.
We have less conversations around issues, around the direction of some projects.
And if it goes away, if somebody deletes their repo, we lose all of that.
So there's some archive possibly needed, some history that would be helpful.
Anyway, interesting discussion around that here.
So thanks, Armin.
Yeah, very nice article, Armin.
And I've really appreciated his thought pieces and his writing over the last year or two.
So good job.
Yeah.
Also, Hugo out in the audience said, hey, don't forget,
Python 3.14.5 is now out with the new, which
is actually the old GC, and 3.15 beta 1, the feature
frees this out.
So yes, thank you so much for that.
Like most notably, the garbage collector GC
has changed back to the full pausing one,
not the incremental one.
Everything old is new again.
Yeah.
Exactly. Here we go. Back around.
All right.
Tell us a joke.
Ready for a joke?
So I've been thinking about, like, everybody's saying,
oh, now that with AI and everything, I can write my own software.
I don't need software engineers.
So it reminded me of this XKCD, so I'm bringing this up.
So it's a make-it-yourself, make-it-myself XKCD.
And there's two people looking at a couple boxes.
and I'll just read it out to you.
It's mostly text.
They want $80 for this?
I could make one myself for $10 in parts,
an hour of work,
a trip to the hardware store,
another $30 for parts,
another few hours of work,
two more trips to the store
for $20 more in parts,
another hour to redo the first hour of work
because I messed it up
and $80 to buy this
when the one I made breaks.
So this is reminding.
That is so true.
It is 100% true.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
And that's why I think this whole vibe coding thing,
there was the SaaS-pocalypse.
And I think that's going to be a very focused
and very narrow impact.
Because it's like, yeah, you can make it.
And you've got to back it up and maintain it
and run it operationally and secure it.
And you know what?
Let's just let them run it for $10.
Yeah, I'm hoping that it will drive.
I mean, I think it'll change the dynamics
of how people make money about software,
but I'm hoping we get more good SaaS out there
and some of the, even if it's helped being made by AI,
but the good ones will stick around
even if they have to get really recoded.
Yeah, indeed.
All right.
Well, thanks a lot for a great episode.
Thanks everybody for listening.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Bye.
See you later.